# 3. Generating Your Own Metadata by Using the Annotation Processor

spring官方文档 https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.7.2/reference/html/configuration-metadata.html#appendix.configuration-metadata.annotation-processor

You can easily generate your own configuration metadata file from items annotated with @ConfigurationProperties by using
the spring-boot-configuration-processor jar. The jar includes a Java annotation processor which is invoked as your
project is compiled.

# 3.1. Configuring the Annotation Processor

To use the processor, include a dependency on spring-boot-configuration-processor.

With Maven the dependency should be declared as optional, as shown in the following example:

```xml

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-configuration-processor</artifactId>
    <optional>true</optional>
</dependency>
```

This dependency ensures that the additional metadata is available when the annotation processor runs during compilation.

If you are using Lombok in your project, you need to make sure that its annotation processor runs before
spring-boot-configuration-processor. To do so with Maven, you can list the annotation processors in the right order
using the annotationProcessors attribute of the Maven compiler plugin. If you are not using this attribute, and
annotation processors are picked up by the dependencies available on the classpath, make sure that the lombok dependency
is defined before the spring-boot-configuration-processor dependency.
如果有使用lombok插件,lombok的依赖要先于spring-boot-configuration-processor
(偷懒一点,直接把spring-boot-configuration-processor放在依赖的最后处理)

# 3.2. Automatic Metadata Generation

The processor picks up both classes and methods that are annotated with @ConfigurationProperties.

If the class is also annotated with @ConstructorBinding, a single constructor is expected and one property is created
per constructor parameter. Otherwise, properties are discovered through the presence of standard getters and setters
with special handling for collection and map types (that is detected even if only a getter is present). The annotation
processor also supports the use of the @Data, @Value, @Getter, and @Setter lombok annotations.

Consider the following example:

```java

@ConfigurationProperties(prefix = "my.server")
public class MyServerProperties {

    /**
     * Name of the server.
     */
    private String name;

    /**
     * IP address to listen to.
     */
    private String ip = "127.0.0.1";

    /**
     * Port to listener to.
     */
    private int port = 9797;

// getters/setters ...
```

This exposes three properties where my.server.name has no default and my.server.ip and my.server.port defaults to "
127.0.0.1" and 9797 respectively. The Javadoc on fields is used to populate the description attribute. For instance, the
description of my.server.ip is "IP address to listen to.".

You should only use plain text with @ConfigurationProperties field Javadoc, since they are not processed before being
added to the JSON.